Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
A tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.

Tuples are written with round brackets.

for example:tuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
            print(tuple)
Tuple items are ordered, unchangeable, and allow duplicate values.

Tuple items are indexed, the first item has index [0], the second item has index [1] etc.

Tuples are unchangeable, meaning that we cannot change, add or remove items after the tuple has been created.
Tuple Methods
Python has two built-in methods that you can use on tuples.
count()	Returns the number of times a specified value occurs in a tuple
index()	Searches the tuple for a specified value and returns the position of where it was found


Set
Sets are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
A set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable*, and unindexed.

Set items are unchangeable, but you can remove items and add new items.
Sets are written with curly brackets.

for example:set = {"apple", "banana", "cherry"}
            print(set)
Set items are unordered, unchangeable, and do not allow duplicate values.
Unordered means that the items in a set do not have a defined order.

Set items can appear in a different order every time you use them, and cannot be referred to by index or key.
Sets cannot have two items with the same value.



Dictionary
Dictionaries are used to store data values in key:value pairs.

A dictionary is a collection which is ordered*, changeable and do not allow duplicates.
Dictionaries are written with curly brackets, and have keys and values
for example: dict = {
                   "brand": "Ford",
  		   "model": "Mustang",
 		   "year": 1964
}
print(dict)

Dictionary items are ordered, changeable, and do not allow duplicates.

Dictionary items are presented in key:value pairs, and can be referred to by using the key name.



Python Loops
Python has two primitive loop commands:

while loops
for loops


The while Loop
With the while loop we can execute a set of statements as long as a condition is true.

for example:
           i = 1
           while i < 6:
               print(i)
               i += 1
The while loop requires relevant variables to be ready, in this example we need to define an indexing variable, i, which we set to 1.

With the break statement we can stop the loop even if the while condition is true

With the continue statement we can stop the current iteration, and continue with the next
With the else statement we can run a block of code once when the condition no longer is true



Python For Loops
A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence (that is either a list, a tuple, a dictionary, a set, or a string).

This is less like the for keyword in other programming languages, and works more like an iterator method as found in other object-orientated programming languages.

With the for loop we can execute a set of statements, once for each item in a list, tuple, set etc.












Python Classes/Objects
Python is an object oriented programming language.

Almost everything in Python is an object, with its properties and methods.

A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

Create a Class
To create a class, use the keyword class
for example:class MyClass:
  x = 5


Create Object
Now we can use the class named MyClass to create objects
for example:p1 = MyClass()
print(p1.x)


 The __init__() function is called automatically every time the class is being used to create a new object.

The __str__() function controls what should be returned when the class object is represented as a string.



Object Methods
Objects can also contain methods. Methods in objects are functions that belong to the object.

Let us create a method in the Person class

class Person:
  def __init__(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age

  def myfunc(self):
    print("Hello my name is " + self.name)

p1 = Person("John", 36)
p1.myfunc()



The self Parameter
The self parameter is a reference to the current instance of the class, and is used to access variables that belongs to the class.

It does not have to be named self , you can call it whatever you like, but it has to be the first parameter of any function in the class

Modify Object Properties
You can modify properties on objects like this
p1.age = 40

Delete Objects
You can delete objects by using the del keyword

Python Inheritance
Inheritance allows us to define a class that inherits all the methods and properties from another class.

Parent class is the class being inherited from, also called base class.

Child class is the class that inherits from another class, also called derived class.

Create a Parent Class
Any class can be a parent class, so the syntax is the same as creating any other class

class Person:
  def __init__(self, fname, lname):
    self.firstname = fname
    self.lastname = lname

  def printname(self):
    print(self.firstname, self.lastname)

#Use the Person class to create an object, and then execute the printname method:

x = Person("John", "Doe")
x.printname()



To create a class that inherits the functionality from another class, send the parent class as a parameter when creating the child class


class Student(Person):
  pass

Use the pass keyword when you do not want to add any other properties or methods to the class.

Python also has a super() function that will make the child class inherit all the methods and properties from its parent

Python Iterators
An iterator is an object that contains a countable number of values.

An iterator is an object that can be iterated upon, meaning that you can traverse through all the values.

Technically, in Python, an iterator is an object which implements the iterator protocol, which consist of the methods __iter__() and __next__().


terator vs Iterable
Lists, tuples, dictionaries, and sets are all iterable objects. They are iterable containers which you can get an iterator from.

All these objects have a iter() method which is used to get an iterator.


